'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its
.\" affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH packagemanager 1 "28 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
packagemanager \- GUI for the Image Packaging System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/usr/bin/packagemanager [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
/usr/bin/packagemanager [-hiRu] [--help]
    [--info-install \fIfile\fR] [--update-all]
    [--image-dir \fIdir\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
/usr/bin/packagemanager [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBpackagemanager\fR is the graphical user interface for \fBpkg\fR(5), the Image Packaging System software.
.sp
.LP
The Package Manager enables you to perform the following tasks:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Search, install, and remove packages.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Add, remove, and modify publishers.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Create, remove, and manage boot environments.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If the \fIfile\fR operand is specified and its suffix is \fB\&.p5i\fR, \fBpackagemanager\fR launches in Web Install mode, which adds one or more publishers and a number of packages for each publisher.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR or \fB--help\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays a usage message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR or \fB--info-install\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows you to specify a \fB\&.p5i\fR file to run \fBpackagemanager\fR in Web Install mode. The \fIfile\fR must have the suffix \fB\&.p5i\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR or \fB--image-dir\fR \fIdir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Operate on the image rooted at \fIdir\fR, rather than the image discovered automatically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-U\fR or \fB--update-all\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Update all installed packages that have updates available.
.LP
Note - 
.sp
.RS 2
If the \fBpackage/pkg\fR, \fBpackage/pkg/package-manager\fR, or \fBpackage/pkg/update-manager\fR packages need to be updated, \fBpackagemanager\fR first updates these packages and then restarts to carry out any remaining updates.
.RE
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
A Web Install file. This file must have the suffix \fB\&.p5i\fR. See the Package Manager online help for more information about Web Install.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fROperate on the Current Image
.sp
.LP
Invoke \fBpackagemanager\fR on the current image.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBpackagemanager\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fROperate on a Specified Image
.sp
.LP
Invoke \fBpackagemanager\fR in the image stored at \fB/aux0/example_root\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBpackagemanager -R /aux0/example_root\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRInvoke in Web Install Mode
.sp
.LP
Invoke \fBpackagemanager\fR in Web Install mode.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBpackagemanager ~/test.p5i\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Everything worked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
Since \fBpkg\fR(5) images can be located arbitrarily within a larger file system, the token \fB$IMAGE_ROOT\fR is used to distinguish relative paths. For a typical system installation, \fB$IMAGE_ROOT\fR is equivalent to /.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$IMAGE_ROOT/var/pkg\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Metadata directory for a full or partial image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$IMAGE_ROOT/.org.opensolaris,pkg\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Metadata directory for a user image.
.sp
Within the metadata of a particular image, certain files and directories contain information useful during repair and recovery. The token \fB$IMAGE_META\fR is used to refer to the top-level directory that contains the metadata. \fB$IMAGE_META\fR is typically one of the two paths given above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$IMAGE_META/gui-cache\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Location for cached metadata maintained by \fBpackagemanager\fR to speed up program startup and switching between publishers.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Other paths within the \fB$IMAGE_META\fR directory hierarchy are Private, and are subject to change.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availability\fBpackage/pkg/package-manager\fR
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpm-updatemanager\fR(1), \fBpkg\fR(1), \fBpkg\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Package Manager online help
.sp
.LP
\fBhttp://hub.opensolaris.org/bin/view/Project+pkg/\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBpackagemanager\fR needs to be invoked with sufficient privilege to operate on an image's files and directories.
