'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its
.\" affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH pm-updatemanager 1 "28 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pm-updatemanager \- application to update packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/usr/bin/pm-updatemanager [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
/usr/bin/pm-updatemanager [-hdR] [--help] [--debug]
    [--image-dir \fIdir\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBpm-updatemanager\fR checks for and installs available updates for the packages installed on the system.
.LP
Note - 
.sp
.RS 2
If the \fBpackage/pkg\fR, \fBpackage/pkg/package-manager\fR, or \fBpackage/pkg/update-manager\fR packages need to be updated, \fBpm-updatemanager\fR first updates these packages and then restarts to carry out any remaining updates.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR or \fB--help\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Displays a usage message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR or \fB--debug\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Runs \fBpm-updatemanager\fR in debug mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR or \fB--image-dir\fR \fIdir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Operate on the image rooted at \fIdir\fR, rather than on the image discovered automatically.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUpdate the Current Image
.sp
.LP
Invoke \fBpm-updatemanager\fR on the current image. This checks for and installs all available updates for packages installed in the current image.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fB/usr/lib/pm-launch pm-updatemanager\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This is the same command that the desktop menu option System>Administration>Update Manager invokes.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUpdate a Specified Image
.sp
.LP
Invoke \fBpm-updatemanager\fR on the image stored at \fB/aux0/example_root\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fB/usr/lib/pm-launch pm-updatemanager -R /aux0/example_root\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Everything worked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availability\fBpackage/pkg/update-manager\fR
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpackagemanager\fR(1), \fBpkg\fR(1), \fBpkg\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fBhttp://hub.opensolaris.org/bin/view/Project+pkg/\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When operating on an image you do not own, \fBpm-updatemanager\fR needs to be invoked with enough privilege. You will normally invoke \fBpm-updatemanager\fR using \fB/usr/lib/pm-launch\fR under these circumstances.
